hello Mr ramaswami it's good to see you
again I I guess we have two streams of
conversation to undertake today the
first is pertains directly to a new book
that you're releasing on September 24th
truths the future of America first and I
think we'll use that as a springboard
for a more General discussion one of the
agreements we made about a year ago was
that you would check in with regular
updates with regards to the progression
of your presidential candidacy which has
come to an end but there's many things
to discuss with regard to its conclusion
and to everything you've learned and to
what the future pathway looks like let's
say in a trump Administration what role
you might play in that or and and how
you and how you construe that in general
but let's start with your let's start
with your book tell us about truths the
future of America First yeah so it's one
of the things and it's great to see you
again by the way because we have mostly
kept that pled and I think it's been
yeah it's been a fun forcing function
for me to also in conversations like
this to take some space and reflect on
what has been still a a lifechanging
journey and you I've enjoyed each of
these times when been able to check in
and to give myself that space has been
useful this book was one of the things
that gave me that occasion for
reflection as well so I left the
campaign at the start of this year and
one of the core tenants of my campaign
the the slogan was truth actually but it
caused me to reflect more deeply on okay
what what did that actually mean and
what are the stakes for the future of
this movement that I ran my presidential
campaign as part of the America first
movement what is the future of that
movement and how does it relate to the
pursuit of Truth and so that's what this
book is about it goes through 10 simple
hard truths and I can tell you what some
of those are but it's a little bit
different than the books that I've
written in the past I wrote woke Inc
which actually was our first basis to
get to know one another that first book
and I've written this is my fourth book
I've written in the last three years but
this one's different and that it's not
actually an academic exposition of any
kind it doesn't pretend to be it's
designed to equip people with the kinds
of points they can use in dinner table
talking point conversation with friends
on the left who they otherwise may not
be interacting with because I think one
of the premises of the book is not just
the content of it but the methodology of
how we get our country back I think is
going to be through
more open dialogue that we're not having
amongst even friends and even family
members for whom certain cultural or
political topics have gone beyond the
pale and so each chapter ends with five
hard points or facts that you took away
from that chapter I've never written a
book that had that type of character to
it as opposed to maybe more you know
intellectual or academic bent but I
think that this actually may be the most
useful of the books that I will have
written I hope because it would arm a
lot of everyday citizens who agree with
the points that I make in the book but
may not have been able to distill them
in ways that allow them to talk to their
friends on the left or friends who are
outside of political interest to be able
to start the conversations at the dinner
table that we're otherwise not having so
it's not quite a how-to book but it does
have an element of guiding people to
have difficult conversations with
friends and I think that's a crucial
part of this with friends who they
otherwise might have experienced
distance with that's part of what this
book hopes to accomplish as well
can we walk through some of those truths
do you want to detail some of them out
so that people have a more clear
understanding of what it is and also
explain to us why you selected and
focused on those yeah absolutely so the
first one is God is real and I'll go
kind of go straight down the list of
some of these God is real yeah yeah do
that do that there are two
genders the climate change agenda is a
hoax that's an adaptation of what I used
in my campaign that fossil fuels
requirement for human
Prosperity another one is that reverse
racism is racism another is that an open
border is not a border another is that
in a democracy the people we elect to
run the government ought to be the ones
who actually run the government or as I
phrase it in the book there are three
branches of government in the United
States not four that's actually a
probably one of the most important
chapters of the book albeit the one that
gets the most technical another one is
that nationalism isn't a bad word and
that's a chapter whose thesis is that
the elected leaders of a Nation
including the United States owe their
first moral duty to the citizens of
their Nation so that explores I think a
lot of the themes relating to the future
of America First there's a chapter
entitled facts are not
conspiracies and you know again these
truths are written in the chapter that
follows that is the US Constitution is
the strongest and greatest guarant tour
of freedom in human
history another chapter explores the
importance of the nuclear family I make
the claim in the book that the nuclear
family is the greatest form of
governance known to mankind so it gives
you a sense for the kinds of truths that
I expose in this book They're the kinds
of things that had I said these things
in the 1990s when I grew up in the
American Midwest I would have advised
you to not buy this book because they
would have been too obvious right the
things that are so obvious they would
have been benal to say the irony is now
in the year 2024 many of those
statements are controversial for the for
the same reasons that they were benal 30
years ago and I think it is when the
obvious becomes controversial that it is
really a reminder of How Far We've
Fallen as a country but I think that
part of the approach of the book isn't
to be angry about it but to offer let's
just take the climate change agenda as a
hoax chapter for example that's one that
I think will and already amongst people
who have had these conversations does
make a lot of people upset when they
hear that framing are you claiming the
climate change or the idea of it is hoax
no I say the climate change agenda is a
hoax because whether climate change is
real or not is the wrong question and
the chapter I think if I may say so you
know go somewhat logically through not
independently conducted research I'm not
a climate scientist but amalgamating in
the the research of a lot of people who
have made this their life's work to go
through the different questions
underlying climate change right first of
all are Global surface temperatures
going up that's a reasonable question to
ask the answer appears to be yes is that
related to man-made causes there's
evidence suggesting that the answer to
that question may be yes but now that
we've gotten that out of the way is
there clear evidence or any evidence to
suggest that that would propose an
existential risk to mankind or the
future of humanity and that's where I
believe the answer is no against the
backdrop of hard facts that the book
exposes from you know other researchers
that have highlighted you folks you've
talked to even born lomberg for example
has highlighted eight times as many
people die from cold temperatures as
warm ones well then how do we synthesize
that to a dinner table conversation that
somebody's able to have with their
friends who believe that climate change
is the single most important issue that
needs to be addressed while not being a
denier of the fact that Global surface
temperatures are going up because they
are but getting to the heart of the
matter of whether that actually has an
adverse impact on the future of humanity
so that's the kind of thing I try to do
chapter by chapter in the book right
that's part of that is a problem I mean
you know we've been enjoined repeatedly
over the past years to defer to the
experts but that difference presupposes
that any given set of facts immediately
displays for your perusal a set of
policies that should be intelligently
implemented and part of the problem with
that hypothesis is well there's many
problems with it but one of the major
ones is balance of risk let's say I mean
one of the things that we did that was
so catastrophic in our covid Panic was
to
prioritize um a small potential
increment in health over every other
possible concern short and long term and
what would you say abdicate any
political responsibility whatsoever with
regard to balancing those risks and that
certainly applies on the climate side is
even if there is a risk the question is
well what is the risk precisely and what
could we do to ameliorate it and what
would be the risks of that amelioration
like the large scale transformation of
the entire industrial Enterprise is no
minor undertaking and it's not at all
obvious as you point out and even by the
ipcc's own uh recognition that that is
the primary existential threat that
confronts human beings I even on the
environmental side and so um and this is
completely independent of the reality of
climate change which I think is also
questionable and the potential danger of
carbon dioxide which in my way of
thinking has not been um convincingly
established especially given the massive
data showing that carbon dioxide
produces Global Greening especially in
semi-arid areas and that's like that's
it's an Greening increase of
20% like when I look at this data as a
scientist and I am a Scientist I think
that data point is so overwhelming 20%
increase in Greening especially in semi-
AED areas accompanied by a quite
dramatic increase in crop productivity
it's like that single data point
overshadows the significance of all the
other data points as far as I can tell
and that's only one potential problem
okay so you I if I just on the climate
point just because this is of near and
dear to my heart as well and it is an
example of what I strive to do in this
book where you know folks like yourself
are able to go into the actual hard data
points and form your own conclusions but
for the everyday citizen that often you
know people who have you know other
callings may not have the same
background that you do that could be a
difficult thing to do when much of what
you're served up comes through the
filter of intermediary sources that
actually are in many ways bastardizing
their so-called synthesis of the
underlying research so what I try to do
here is at least demarcate several
categories of questions the first you
raised is I think one many people are at
least comfortable now with broaching the
idea that okay even if climate change
represents some kind of risk is the cure
worse than the disease that's the
covid-19 analogy and and I I contend
with that but that is well trod in
ground but one of the things I try to do
in in this book and for example in this
chapter of the book as well is to go
beyond just that well trodden accepted
trade-off debate to actually even a
deeper question of forget the costs of
intervention
are we certain or do we even have a
basis to believe that a net increase of
a small amount of global surface
temperatures is indeed a bad thing for
Humanity period this irrespective of the
question of intervention right because
you have many people say that oh we we
we still need fossil fuels we still need
that and the cost of that even though
climate change is going to be bad for
Humanity the cost of that would exceed
the benefits that's one argument that's
a totally separate argument but an
important one from the question of
whether or not
carbon dioxide AED or EDD increases in
global surface temperatures of under two
degrees Celsius over the course of a
century is bad or good and it turns out
there are some effects that are arguably
bad for Humanity there are other effects
which are more convincingly potentially
net positive for Humanity such as the
fact that more people die of cold
temperatures than warm ones such as the
fact that the Earth is actually covered
by more green surface area as you noted
than it was even a century ago
especially in semi-arid areas as you're
right to note
and then there's the deeper question of
going even Upstream of that so are we
sure this is net bad for Humanity then
there's the question of are we even sure
that carbon dioxide is even the cause of
the said phenomenon in the first place
when it's actually a much smaller
percentage of the atmosphere when we
have relatively low levels of carbon
dioxide in the atmosphere relative to
most of Earth's history those are also
deeper questions on the underlying
science to ask and so I I find in many
of these questions we could talk about
the Border debate we could talk about a
number of the other issues even in the
gender ideology debates where I think
conservatives often will conflate those
different questions because we we know
in our gut what the right answer is what
the truth is but sometimes if our goal
is to bring as I as my goal here is
friends at the dinner table along we can
actually do better by understanding
which of those strands a particular
audience on the other side would find
most persuasive or is most receptive to
and actually use that rather than the
amalgam of of the general point that
sometimes we make in our political
discourse first
[Music]